Yes. First I would like to ask for some insight from your perspective on our
relationship with our friend Alice.
Well this is a difficult relationship in the terminology of the world that has
come home to roost, I believe is the term used here.
Make no mistakes, this is an old, an old relationship.
More in relationship to your wife really than to yourself,
but nevertheless, in periphery part for you.
I believe I will address most of this to your wife
since she does seem to be the focal point of most of it.
Do you want to sit over here?
If you don't mind, it's easier for me.
The first thing that we would really like to tell you is that
although the circumstances may be extremely difficult for you on the physical plane,
there is a debt here of tremendous importance.
Your connection with her is old, has not been very important in this lifetime at all,
but nevertheless carries a very strong impression from two lifetimes ago.
This is a carryover, of course, that has faded out of your consciousness and also out of hers.
The reason that she is here in this particular relationship
is to enable you to repay this small debt that has been left over.
[cough]
The main thing is to remember that it will not be of a very long-lasting nature.
She will not be in relationship to you in this way for very much longer.
But make good use of it, if you would, while she's here,
while she's here because there are some important lessons.
First of all, the most important thing that we would ask you to remember
is that there is nothing you can do for her.
Thank you.
Well, this is...
Because of your awareness of freedom that can exist on the earth plane
within one's mind if one's mind has light in it,
you feel that you would like to in some way transfer this wisdom to her
so that you may help her.
One hates to give up on anyone,
but please rest assured
that experts have tried in this field and have failed.
She has been given many, many opportunities
to lighten her load, literally to lighten it,
to bring light to herself, to her load.
She has, within her conscious memory in this lifetime,
many, many references of various religions and text work
that would, if she would become deeply concentrated on it,
would tremendously lighten her life.
But each time she has chosen to remain as she is.
So please, first and foremost,
do not feel at all responsible for transforming any of this, please.
All right?
And don't even make a terribly great effort
to incorporate her into your group
or to make any special efforts along that line.
In a sense, we're dealing with a spoiled child who has for many years been allowed to be spoiled
and continues it in this later advanced years.
But don't be overly concerned and when you're there,
our concern mostly is that she will try to somehow bleed from you.
This is a term that we use, I don't know how it translates through for you.
A bleeding of an energy field from one person to another is a very common thing on the earth plane that is not always observed by the humans.
You mean, excuse me, that she would drain energy from me?
Yes, and now this takes many forms. It's not just a matter of as you sit there that she will somehow remove it from you.
It usually will come in the terms of wanting you to do extra extraneous things for her.
In other words, you using your energy for her rather than first her doing it herself.
Now many things that other people perform for this woman she could do for herself.
and it is a way of her becoming center stage, you see.
And that's all a very childish response to this situation.
And really, if you can get it out of your mind
that you're dealing with an adult, I think you will do better.
Just look on her with a tender-hearted concern
as you would of a child who has not yet reached the state of maturity.
The sad thing, of course, is that she will cross over
and will still be in this state and then we'll have much to do,
but that is really not your concern, you see.
So our worry is, do not allow her to misuse your energy and your time,
because it is not as if you were helping her to be more positive.
Do what you feel is vital and is loving and is necessary,
but please be well aware that there is a childish resentment in her
against any field of love for anyone else that you may have.
And this includes your husband.
She resents the time and the ties that you have built up with him.
She will resent very much knowing, for example, when your family is here,
this will be another time that she will have difficulties.
These patterns will, you know, repeat themselves with anyone who is close to you.
But just as you would not indulge a child, as you would just be firm and loving,
we would request that you consider this approach to her.
One, you cannot really help her, so please don't make overly conscientious efforts along that line.
And two, really stand removed.
There is on the earth plane at this time a lot of children
[cough]
a lot of children who are called
I cannot remember the term
I'm sorry
It is, it is, the way it is seen for us is they are overly active
much too tension ridden
Hyperactive children?
Yes
Now, and there are many more of them on the earth plane at this time than there ever have been
and this is an interesting question that no one seems to have asked yet as to why.
Well, this woman should be considered as one of these.
She will make excessive demands, she will be very arbitrary,
she will be very full of temper and tantrums in a sense.
And just treat it as you would one of these children.
Have you anything else you'd like to add?
Yes, just one more question. You mentioned that I had a debt that I owe to her. Is there anything else, what type of a debt, or what I, anything else which I need to do for her, even though I can't help her with her understanding? Is there any other debt here that I need to...
Well, it is a small matter in terms of, in the two lifetimes ago that I spoke of, there was an opportunity.
When you were less developed two lifetimes ago, you have come a great deal in your two lifetimes.
And two lifetimes ago, there was an opportunity for you to help her in a physical manner, on a physical plane,
simply in a physical way, and you turned on it and didn't.
and it's simply that, it's nothing terribly complicated or terribly...
it's certainly nothing other than that, it's simply you have the opportunity,
you have chosen to play it out at this time and to end your responsibility
and to, as it were, clean up the slate and that's all that this is.
Well, I guess what I'm asking then is just the fact that I run in and out
and check and make sure that she's alright, that she has food
food or if she has her needs taken care of, that takes care of it?
That does take care of it.
Thank you so much.
There is no need and you must please stay free from any concern.
The moment she really wants help, there is so much crowding within her home that is waiting
to assist her.
So we simply wait for her choice.
Thank you.
for her choice.
We have been considering starting what we might call a core group
from some of those who have been with us in our quest group for a period of time,
going into some deeper truths that are less possible in the fluctuating group
as a quest group, and I would like any suggestions you might have
for the functioning of this group and perhaps the individuals
that might be, benefit the most from it.
Well, I think it's a wonderful idea, and I'm so glad you picked it up,
because it is something that we have been suggesting in various ways to you for quite a while,
and we're very pleased that you have received this message
because this is indeed what is needed
because your group does function on two levels
and there are those who are very much ready for a deeper group.
Now, there is one problem you will have to face.
The ones who do not...
The problem that you will face is how to get the core group to function
without making the others feel in any way left out.
Now, I think that one of the ways to avoid this obvious problem
is if you announce that you are going to start a very serious study group
and that it will involve a degree of commitment,
that certain ones of them will eliminate themselves automatically.
Do you understand what I mean?
But some of them will say, "Well, obviously I don't have the time, I don't have the interest," and so forth.
But they will be eliminated.
But then there will be others who will be drawn,
who will not really be as committed as they think they are,
but for a social reason or for their own ego or for whatever reason,
will then be drawn to coming.
I would not be overly concerned about them,
because one of two things will happen.
They will either become very serious, which is of course what you would hope for,
that through the deeper studying that they are into, this will then bring forward the very thing that you're trying for,
or they will find of themselves that they are either bored or can't find the time, or will weed themselves out of your situation.
Don't be overly concerned, but I think your presentation must be very strong, that this is a disciplined order.
You see, there will be a set text even, so much as a beginning text.
Do you see what I'm saying? It must be structured in a very disciplined manner.
There should be required times of meditation for them, whatever you choose to set up.
But there must be a commitment on their part prior to joining it.
if you could present it as sort of an experiment, if you will,
you know, that you would like to experiment on whether certain things are beneficial or not
and you would like a certain core group to work with you.
Now, if everyone in your group volunteers, then you will have a difficult problem
and you may have to drop the project. Do you see?
Yes.
If the night that you announce it, they all say, "Fine, let us turn this night into that serious study,"
Then you will have to think about that. Then you may have to impose those rules right then and say that this is a requirement and that henceforth anyone who comes on that particular night will have to fulfill these requirements. Do you see?
No, we're making it an afternoon meeting for that reason, partly.
Well, my point is this. If on your night of your meeting you announce this, everyone will say, "Well, that's why we're here. That's why we're sitting here. That's just what we want."
Now this will then give you pause, and you may then have to say, "All right, then let us turn this into a definite group meeting with definite structures."
you see, the rules that would have applied to your afternoon meeting will now have to be applied to your evening meeting
and then you'll have to see how it works out.
You see, embryo things like this move in different directions and often surprise you.
And you may get a lot of the people that come in the evening will simply not come anymore
because it's too intense, they don't get to talk enough, they have to do too much meditation,
things are too deep or you see, they will weed themselves out.
So one of two things can happen.
I think you would do best if you would keep an open mind
and as you presented to say,
we would like to have a very serious core group
that will go into deeper areas of these subject fields
and I would appreciate it if those of you who are interested
interested will contact me at a later time, all right? Because this then removes
that spontaneous combustion of everyone saying, "Oh, now, now, I want it, you see, to
say please contact me at a later time." That in itself will weed out a lot of
the people who will not take the time to telephone, to set up an appointment, to
come and see you. And I think that you should both be very serious about that
first meeting when they come, each one comes on their own to you, to really
work with them as to whether it is something they really want. In other
words, to have a certain standard that you will set and then ask them if this is
really what they're looking for. Sort of like you have an opening in a job, you
know, you have to present your desires and what you want in the group
and then see if that person who is sitting there will be able to fulfill that or who even wants to.
You must be sober about it, is my meaning.
Otherwise, you are going to have the same pattern repeating.
Only your afternoon group will be filled with people who don't work and who don't want to go to the supermarket, you see.
So, much of it depends on your seriousness
and please, as much as you can, put aside all preconceived ideas of who should belong
Because you may be surprised.
May I ask a question?
Certainly.
Do I understand you correctly that when we announce this meeting
and then when we set a time that they come,
we should have a program laid out, say,
if we would work it out between ourselves,
that we're going to study such and such a book
book or are we going to spend this much time in meditation and that kind of thing to have
a program laid out that we present to them?
Is that what you mean?
My thought was this.
The evening comes and you announce that you are going to, do not say you are thinking
of, just state you are going to start a core group and anyone who is interested, please
contact you by phone at a later date and you will set up with each person
individually a time when they come to your home and discuss with you whether
they would really want to participate in this. Do you see? And then each one will
come at a separate time. Oh. Not having four people come at once. I see. Because
you see what you really want is the first of all the person who cares enough
to make the phone call, the person who cares enough to set up the interview, the
the person who cares enough to give thought to what you present.
Now when each one of them individually comes and speaks to you,
that is when you should say this is a rigorous program,
this is what we have in mind,
we are going to have these as our certain criteria
and we really want this to be a much more intense and serious situation.
Now, many of the egos will respond yes, yes,
but in actuality many of them will probably drop out
because they will not be able to prove themselves about how rigorous they're being
and I think it would be important, very important, that there be a knowledge in them
that if they do take this on, that they will really give themselves to it for a certain period of time
as an experimental group
But again I say you should be serious about this and the reason I say that is that you sir tend to be a little tenuous about things like this you see you are a little tenuous
and that is not really that that makes them tenuous well if I do the work that's alright but if I don't well then that's alright this kind of thing
so if you could be a little more sober about that
Thank you. The next point that I wanted to ask about, Arnold Teunby, the historian, made
a statement recently that, as he saw, one of the most important events in this era was the
interpenetration of Christianity by Buddhism. Do you have any comments on that?
The movement of the world, the movement of all of the forces on the earth plane is toward a oneness.
The statement that he is making comes from his bias and should be understood as such.
But what is represented in the truth of all that kind of statements is that the aim of those of us that stand on the other side of the light is to pierce the mind of man with the knowledge that the energy from which each varying religion derives its meaning comes from one source.
and any inner penetration is only successful to the extent that each of those two entities
come to see their deep similarity of source.
It would be a same truth in the statement to say that Mohammedanism and Christianity coming
together would be an important event or the religion of Islam, whatever, because what
What is really the thrust of our work is for all to see that there is one source, there
is one source, and any movement that can be made on the earth plane for peoples to blend
their varying dichotomies together into an awareness that there is only one source from
which they spring.
That is a very monumental movement on the part of the human entity.
So, there's not anything particularly special about Buddhism and Christianity meeting.
The only time that it will be at all special is if, as a result,
if these two different feelings, these two different strains,
can blend together to the point where they recognize their one basic source from which they spring,
then it will have been a successful experiment.
It is by no means a completed fact.
No, of course not.
By no means.
And in fact, there is jeopardy, because it could set many people up in opposition, you see.
Any kind of a force like this also creates an opposite force,
and some of that opposite force is taking a great deal of manifestation in the Christian
world where they are becoming, if I may say, bull-headed about this.
You see, they are, it's almost a backlash of isolation.
The Christian movement is becoming perhaps even more isolated in a sense, a certain strain
of it as a result of what they consider to be the threat of this Buddhist philosophy.
But the basic important thing for all concerned from our perception, the basic thing that
they need to see is to drop all of the extraneous things that are not the same. For example,
the enlightened Buddhist or the enlightened Christian would tell you that the understanding
of Christ and the Buddha are very similar.
They are very similar.
There are certain areas in course where they differ
because of many obvious things.
But the truth, the heart of both of these
be with truth.
And this is what is hoped.
This is what is hoped, you see.
Now, it may not be successful.
It may not work.
You implied one time that that was part of my function
at this time was to promote this sort of thing.
Yes, this is still true.
And the reason that you are helpful in this regard
is that you are able to also see the truth that lies in Christianity.
You see, it is not very helpful to have a lot of people biased,
a lot of Christians saying that their way is the only way,
and a lot of Buddhists, which they also say,
that their way is the only way.
We observe a very interesting thing.
The Hindu, for example, says that he is willing to honor other gods and so forth.
That in fact, if you wish to take each individual Hindu, you see,
and ask that particular Hindu his particular deep belief,
what he will tell you is that his particular deity is the strongest, you see.
There really is very little...
A Buddhist, for example, is very willing to say, yes, Christianity can be accepted and so forth.
But if you take a particular Buddhist and speak to him clearly, what he says is, Buddha is the way.
Do you see what I'm saying?
That although the theology of these various religions gives approval of other religions,
religions in the heart of the person who is doing the worshipping there is a feeling of
superiority over other religions. And this is what we want so much to see breaking down
if we can. And the reason that you will be helpful, you will be helpful to the extent
that you can see the Christ heart beating within the Buddhist heart and realizing that
that they both beat with the same pulse because it is the pulse of God.
You see, they tend to forget that it is God that is the source from which all of these,
the Christ and the Buddha spring, you see,
and the emphasis must go back to the source and to the similarities instead of to the dissimilarities.
Yes.
It was once you made a statement about reincarnation,
and it seemed to me that you viewed the subject from a different perspective
from the usual one that we have here on this planet.
Would you help us with your insight on this process?
Well, incarnation, reincarnation, the whole subject is very muddled.
The reason for this is of course the ego's tremendous desire to feel that it will live on forever.
And therefore it tries very hard to keep its life pulse beating throughout eternity.
Therefore you have many of the doctrines that say that one life follows another and so forth.
What I am going to say will probably not please many of you, or maybe any of you.
But what is true is that your life, as each one of you individually live it, is not as
separate from other people's lives as your perception would lend you to think.
For example, in the case of you and your wife, you've spent many years together.
You might perceive your life as your own entity moving through certain steps, affected by your
past actions.
This is a typical view of reincarnation.
Now, that is partially true, but it is partially not true, because the fact is that if you could
perceive with the inner eye rather than just the eyes of the body, you would perceive that
the body of you and your wife, there is no difference. You see, if you could see this
room now and could see the perception of the movements, the undulating movements of lights
that move between these four bodies, you would laugh at this idea of your tremendous separateness
because you are not separate. You see, a thought comes from that gentleman there over this
way and its movement blends with what is happening here and changes it. There is not this tremendous
wall that separates each one and this is why the great teachers have emphasized over and
over and over again when you begin the movement toward awareness of the light, of the God
Self, of the Christ, of the Buddha, whatever, when you begin this movement, the reason they
asked you to be selective about who you're with is because of this very phenomenon of
which I'm speaking. It is not some kind of a prudish, specialistic idea. It is simply
a truth that you blend and the ones that are closest to you in physical form are the ones
you blend the easiest with. This makes good sense to you, I hope. So therefore, this is
why we have a concern about this gentleman and his job that he is chosen.
Do you hear me sir?
I certainly do.
Because he also is not separate from all of the movements that are happening out where he is located.
And although we have done our best to protect him with a shield of light,
there is only so much that one can do when a person is placed in that environment.
The reason that he will move out of his location is simply that as he becomes more purified,
as his consciousness becomes more and more attuned,
it will be increasingly, instead of being easier to be there, it will be more difficult to be there.
Because there will be this continual mingling. Do you see what I'm saying?
That their consciousness of those entities is on a lower plane at this time
and is unfortunately kept isolated because that's almost all they have
and they draw onto them people who they call guards
whose consciousness are very similar.
Now the exceptions are in the teaching staff
and various other pinpoints of light that I perceive now in that building.
There are some pinpoints of light.
The teaching end of the building has this.
But if you understand me, sir,
This is one of the reasons why you may find yourself moving out of that.
I understand.
Now, back to the reincarnation. It is very, very funny for us to view all of you
feeling that your little life is so special and so separate and so very independent from our perception.
Please be glad that this is not so, because if this were true,
it would be extremely difficult for you to transcend.
extremely, because you see, if you were independent one from another, you would also be independent from the source of the good ones, from the source of the great ones that stand there, you see.
You cannot be isolated only from other people and also then be open to the vast wisdom of the great ones that stand there, you see.
So be grateful, please, that it's been set up in this manner.
It is much more wonderful, if you can get your minds to turn a slight degree,
so much more wonderful to realize that as the four of these bodies sit in this room,
that what they all are is just melding and merging and doing in many ways a lovely rhythm, you see.
And this is why the environment in which you live speaks importantly to you also.
You know, if you live in a very dark hovel, there is something within that dark hovel
that can press upon you and you will become a part of that,
because you see, you are a part of this.
You are a part of this.
You know there is nothing in this environment that you are not in movement with.
From your perception, it's a lot of separate things.
In reality, it is movement.
And so, again, sir, to you I would say that the environment that you are in presents this jeopardy
because they are confined into one limited area.
This makes the power of it stronger and there is less likelihood of it opening up.
Now, the one fortunate thing is where it is placed.
I see it on a vast mesa.
Open, pretty open area, is that true?
Absolutely.
And this is very helpful because you see there is a movement, a harmony of land and sky and cloud,
wind moves through there and that does help to dissipate a lot of that.
And it is a fortunate choice to place these institutions out in such areas
and not, say, in the heart of the city, where there would be even more impact with a difficult mindset.
Because the land itself vibrates to help them, you see.
There's a movement within the land because there is no separation between the sand and the sky and the sea
and the building and the beams, you see.
There's this movement, this constant exchange.
Have I made this clear to you?
This matter you said that talked about success in lives, like two lives and two lifetimes,
how does that relate to us?
Well, there is always, there is always a focal point in a sense that we would call in this case, Louisa Aiken.
Alright, now, Louisa Aiken perceives herself as the same person with various changes moving through one lifetime.
Now in reality, if she could see herself, she would realize that she is now a tremendous composite of a great many other people's images, movements, thought forms, and so forth.
But there still is a centered core around which some of these adhere.
Now the most important particles, the most important movements, coalesce into the strongest particles.
Now I'm not speaking necessarily of the most positive or the most negative.
I'm just saying the strongest...
It's as if there's a magnet named Louisa.
And certain forces are drawn to her,
and some pass right through her,
because there is no responding magnetism of any kind.
And they just become unimportant.
They do not affect the core of the person.
But on the other hand, certain other things move through her
that have a tremendous correlation, that have what you would call a hook-up.
It's almost a molecular, it is a light hook-up within her, of correspondence, of vibration.
And they stay with her.
And so it is this essence that we speak of as Louisa.
Now, to go, to say two lifetimes ago, is very helpful for her at this moment
in understanding her situation with this woman.
Now if I were to speak from another perception, I would say there is a residue within this
woman, within Louisa, that needs to be dissipated.
It will be dissipated through the giving of light to this manifestation outside herself
that she sees as this other woman.
In this giving to her, the thing will be, the molecular tension will be broken and this
will drift away from her and no longer be a part of her.
Do you understand me?
I think so.
Would you like a clarification?
Well, I was seeing, I think it was the same thing,
different people that we meet that come through our lives,
and I have noticed this in myself,
that some of them, you just automatically feel a great closeness and a love
and of enjoyment of being close to them and being with them.
There are other people, very nice people, very good people,
that you don't feel that same attraction for.
And I have wondered about that. Is that what you're saying?
That they're on a different vibration?
That's true. They're not important for what you are a composite of at that moment.
For example, someone who in your terminology is not very spiritually evolved,
evolved, is the term that you use. What you really are saying is that the vibrational
impact of that person is pulling toward it like impact, and it is on the same frequency
level. Now, as that person allows themselves, and this usually often has to happen in times
of crises, in times of crises we act in different ways. We have the power at certain junctures
life. When a call is made, this is why crises are so important, the crises come into the life of say this so-called lower
evolved person. The crises breaks them into, jolts them into an asking. Now, they ask. This is our chance, you see. Because prior to that we cannot
We cannot just keep hounding that person and hounding that person.
Their free will is what motivates what will happen to them.
The crisis comes, the crack in the armor, they call out in whatever way,
"Oh my God, help me. If you will help me, I give you promises to do this, this, this," and so forth.
Many times we see this happen. Many times they relive on them in later times.
All these promises are just forgotten. That is not the point.
I pointed that at that moment there is a crack.
The vibrational entity has said, "Help!"
The minute this cry comes, we then begin our movement.
And we move with them as long as they ask.
And we would move with that entity until the day the entity chose to move to the light.
If they would hold that, you see, if they would hold that call, but they don't.
The crisis is resolved, they go back to their normal way of existence, they're very grateful that they're still, you know, alright and whatever, or if their son has been saved.
You know, many times we see this kind of thing. The promises are forgotten, or if they're done, they're done as just a debt to be paid.
But, but, with that call, something has happened, you see.
Now, with that little wedge, they are then able to have another light harmony move for them, you see.
It's as if there's a crack in the sphere, and the light rushes into that sphere, and it remains there.
And it draws to it, its own likeness now, which is life, you see.
And eventually, as the years go on, as lives go on, more crises happen, as is the designated plan.
One of the main reasons for crises is to continually crack this sphere open more and more and more and more
until it is nothing but a ball of gold and white.
That is what we're really aiming for.
As each one of these crises enters in, it cracks it open more and more, and each time, you see, more rushes in.
you see, and that gives them a greater chance the next time to call it like form
because like calls like, you see, and much of the sphere may still have
pressing on it the negative similarities, but then we mustn't forget that that is also here, this light
and what happens so often, you see a young child with a great many problems
and you think poor thing, poor thing, from our perception this is not true, you see
It is often the opposite. Some of the strongest entities in the life cycle are those whose childhoods were extremely difficult.
Because it's at these junctures that they intuitively call out and bring into them, through their call, more of the light.
Do you see what I mean? The child that has a perfect upbringing and has a lot of joy and a lot of love,
often times we'll find in the 20s, 30s, 40s and so forth, then they begin to have the cracks
in the sphere. Now this is something that's set up ahead of time and doesn't need to concern
us. It's set up in certain ways because of certain desires. Some of the hardest incarnations
are taken on because of the anesthesia's deep desire to get on with it, to just drop much
of this in one lifetime.
And although things on the outside look tremendously difficult,
actually they've been wise in many ways.
But I still sense your question.
There was no Louisa Aitken two lifetimes ago.
There wasn't even someone who we now call Louisa Aitken.
I mean, the changes that she has gone through,
not only as an incarnate being,
but in the freedom of the other planes in between her incarnations,
there is no likeness at all.
There is residue.
And this is what we speak to in this particular point.
There is a residue.
[inaudible]
Yes, yes.
Yes, that is the kind of meaning that I'm seeking to convey.
[inaudible]
Right, now, had this woman...
It didn't have to be this particular woman from two lifetimes ago.
Had you been aware earlier in this lifetime, there were other instances,
other connections with other people that could have removed this from you.
But the fact was that you, at those particular junctures of your life, you were working on other things.
You see, there's only so many things that you can deal with at once.
And so we're always learning.
And we move from one awareness to another, you see.
And now, here is this one, coming at a very right time.
Right for you and right for her.
The circumstances are set.
You have the time.
You're not working on anything else at the moment.
This gives you the breathing space to work with it and deal with it and remove it from your life.
Do you see it?
Did I answer your question?
What's your question?
What's your...
Do I understand that you have been my teacher or do I have been your teacher?
direct contact with the human as a matter of fact,
is better than using a cell phone to make...
I think we should de-postpone that.
The type of connection that we seek to make,
and we can make that,
is best done in the hours of the night,
when the world,
The place in the world where you exist is in a quieter state.
It will be easier on the woman at that time.
The channels would be much easier for her in the evening.
She has a certain intuitive movement with her child.
And in the evening when the child is in bed and taken care of
and she can remove this situation from her mind,
she is much freer to do this.
And we have to be careful of her too,
because she's a part of this whole process,
and we are trying to be as understanding
about her needs as possible.
But by all means, and please ask it again
in an evening situation, and I feel quite sure at this time
that something of that nature can continue.
[inaudible]
None of this that I say now should be repeated,
because he would not be able to hear it.
But the image of this gentleman
is one of many, many layers
of desires.
It's almost as if there is
layers and layers of serpents of desires winding around his, the pole of his center being.
Is the image clear to you?
And there are many, many of them around his center core.
and he is drawn to the quest because of his decor of the being, which is of course the same core as the rest of mankind.
But in this particular case, he would do much better to spend his time forgetting, almost
putting aside the question of the spiritual quest, and concentrating on the human quest.
He is not even a successful person in a functioning sense in the human material world.
and there is no grounding, he is not grounded in the sense that he is always in a state of flux
I see this, the image is given of movement, constant movement, not movement upward or movement downward
but just kind of a dissipated movement in all directions
which is interpreted to mean that his energy is simply going off in all directions
There is no... a person who is that dissipated in the sense of energy and in the sense of desires,
he has many desires that he dissipates at will.
There is no steady, compact, concentrated impulse.
It is all dissipated.
But what we will say to him is this.
Are you going to play tape for me?
I think it might be better if you simply give him a quote and then just tell him that the tape is with a woman or whatever.
Because I do not feel that he needs to be chastised.
The problem is similar to many people.
He's drawn to the spiritual world because he seeks to avoid responsibility.
And he feels that if you are a spiritual seeker,
then you can overlook many of the mundane responsibilities
that the human body is expected to perform.
My advice to him is to spend a considerable amount of time looking within and finding
the thing that at the moment it seems to him he most wants to do, whatever it may be.
On the physical plane now I'm speaking, I'm speaking in terms of work, in terms of job,
and whatever he decides to make a vow in himself that for five years he will remain with it.
Five years.
And stay with it.
And in that time, to not indulge in mind fantasies of what he would like to be doing,
but to keep the power, you see what we're aiming at,
that if he can keep himself in a compact situation,
if he has promised that he, from himself,
if he has promised himself that he will remain in a certain place for five years,
he will draw to him the concentrated, compact consciousness
that is the primary prerequisite before you can even begin
the most elementary stages of a spiritual quest.
And you see, this gentleman doesn't have it.
And one of the reasons he doesn't have it is his continual moving from place to place and thing to thing and person to person
and thought to thought and fantasy to fantasy.
He needs to become compact.
So, five years, one job.
That's it.
And no fantasies.
Please make this very clear to him.
It will not do him any good to stay in one thing for five years,
gritting his teeth with the determination of "I hate this, I don't want to be here, I wish I were doing A, B and C."
The idea is to get his mind so concentrated on what he is doing
that he would be able to perceive the joy that is inherent in any occupation.
In any occupation. There is inherent in it a spontaneous joy.
a spontaneous enjoyment, participation, all things are possible in any position you take.
So this would be our advice to him. A five-year commitment, and see if he can work on it.
Now make no other statements around it, for example.
Please don't say, "Five years commitment to one woman," for example.
That would be extremely unwise.
And do not in any way please stress discipline.
Like, whatever he chooses to do on that periphery is really not important.
It will be sufficient until the day he will be able to do this one thing,
think of finding the spontaneous joy and creative response in one job for five years?
I don't want to have that kind of thing.
I want to know how the person will overcome their over-tempted reaction,
or negativity, to the act of the person.
Well, that's a good question, because it's plagued for many years.
Basically, she needs to understand one thing.
The negativity that comes from others to her is essentially not terribly important.
She tends to feel that things are more important than they really are.
She, uh, someone will say something to her, the person who says it to her is perhaps being very, very casual about it,
and doesn't even think about it in the next five minutes.
but she herself is taking it in and grooves on it and worries on it and so forth, you see.
Now, this is an old habit and can easily be broken and it must be broken and it's in the process of being broken
and the step that she has to take is the minute that she feels, for example, someone says something to her
that hurts, that makes her feel unworthy or depressed or inferior or there are many things
that one could feel. And by the way this applies to many people and not just to the woman herself.
The first thing, the first thing that should cross her conscious mind is I choose not to
dwell on this. And that's the first thing that I would do. I would say, "I'm not going to
And then, if she still feels the pull of that kind of, because all it is is an indulgence
in a negative kind of a thought situation, then all she has to do is to say, "I choose
to dwell in," and then pick something else, "whatever is most joyful for her."
In her case, most definitely just to choose to dwell in the presence of God, which is
which is very much what she does most of the time,
is try to feel, even to the physical feeling of the God presence around her,
she's moving into that kind of an awareness,
and is able often to feel the pulsations of the higher forces directly around her.
And if she would just make a conscious choice of saying,
"I don't choose that," you see,
and then not to continue to think on this thing,
to drop it and to select, to choose this other,
and to move into those feelings.
I think she will find in, I would predict, in weeks,
not months, in weeks, excuse me,
that she would be able to drop out.
And I would suggest to other people who might have access to this data,
the same process.
Each time something comes into your consciousness, you have a choice.
You can take it in and become obsessed with it,
and deal with it and worry about it,
or you can say, "I choose something else,"
and select whatever it is that brings light to your mind rather than darkness.
It's simply a choice.
If a symbol of the void is beautiful, that should be dwelt on.
If the light or the cross or the Christ or the whatever,
those symbols should be... that is what they're for.
The symbols of the world are there for you to use,
and that's the kind of time that we ask you to use them.
She also likes to sing along to the Christian music, which is all around her.
Yeah, well, I think it's a wonderful thing.
And I highly encourage her in all aspects of it.
Now, it is not for everyone, and she must be aware that there will be much criticism,
and in ensuing years there will be controversy over this course,
because it professes, as you know, to come from Christ himself,
and there will be a great deal of controversy.
Now, she has thought about this herself,
And the answer for her is, I believe you're all aware of the fact that the Course says that it is Jesus who saw him with his feet.
And in a sense this is absolutely true. There is nothing in that Course that does not come from the highest source of the Christ vibration.
Now, it is really not important to say, "Does it come from the persona that we consider to be Jesus?"
There is nothing that is in that course that does not reflect the highest,
the highest that the Christ, as personified by Jesus, has to offer.
and she can go into it without any trepidation whatsoever.
Many people will not understand it. I do not encourage her to talk about it.
I think that she should, especially around very orthodox Christians,
should make absolutely no mention of it.
They will do what they can to underline it.
And she should let them go on their way, because everybody needs what they need.
And this is a very definite response to her soul call for guidance.
And I use it often to connect with her, because she believes in it.
You see, she responded immediately to the deep truths that lie there.
And she is able to throw out the extraneous and dwell on the essence of it.
And this is why for her it's so very vital that she continue with it,
because she is able, out of all the pages and pages, to pick those kernels that are the highest
and to begin to believe what it is that she needs to believe, that she is, you see, a part of this whole drama of God.
So yes, by all means.
You mentioned the persona of Jesus.
I guess what you said about the person,
that he was in the concentration camp,
the persona of Jesus,
and a lot of the verses in the Bible,
you mentioned.
The persona of Jesus is, in a sense,
so much more powerful,
so much more radiant,
so much more awe-inspiring
than it was 2,000 years ago,
that were we to meet him
on the earth plane today,
as they did then,
then it is doubtful that any physical vehicle could encompass.
I mean, he too has moved to realms, you see.
There is no end.
It is hard to explain, but there is no end to the capacity to expand into the total Godness.
Did you understand?
There is no end to the infinite.
And the persona of Jesus in the two thousand years since he left the earth plane
has continued to radiate and to grow in life and wisdom
that those who tune into him now are given so much more than they were two thousand years ago.
You see? Because he himself has moved to...
He is so much closer to the totality of things than he was then,
that his gift throughout the century increases.
You see, it's so funny, the world says 2000 years ago,
and puts him as an old archaic form.
In truth, he is so much more now than he ever was,
that he is an even greater gift to mankind now than he was then, you see.
And it is so opposite.
He is the source that I draw to.
He is the source that I look to for my wisdom.
And in my state of exaltation,
I do my very best to reach the heights that he was a two thousand years ago, you see.
And he has so far transcended that now, that someone like myself could walk the plane, the earth plane now, and be considered on that vibrational level.
But not him. If he came back, in the form that he was, I mean that he is now, we won't even speculate about that.
But, are there any questions in the room?
[unclear]
Well, again, there's been an awful lot of disinformation filtered through various people on this subject.
And it is true that he will come again, and bless this world with his soul.
Now, when we say "He will come again," it is so hard to put into words, but as I try
to explain, the physical vehicle that walked the earth in 2008, the physical vehicle that
walked the earth in 2008, the physical vehicle that walked the earth in 2008, the physical